>> Evan You: So we talked about
reactivity in the first section, and
now we're talking about random functions,
and
random functions are essentially
the other half of the puzzle that
completes the whole reactivity
rendering system in view itself.
And in case you don't
know render functions,
view templates are in fact compiled
into render functions under the hood.
And since not everyone has used React,
we're
gonna share some,
I guess, basic knowledge.
So, in a view context,
when we first render a view app,
we will first compile the template
into Render function.
So this compilation process happens on the
fly if you are using the full build and
your directly say using in DOM template,
like your writing the template
directly in the DOM.
Or you're giving the view
instance a string of templates.
But if you're using view CLI to
scaffold a project with a build step.
So with webpack and view loader,
view loader actually pre-compiles
the template at built time.
So, the code that you ship to the browser
doesn't contain the original template,
instead it ships the compiled render
function code, which is pure JavaScript.
So this is similar to the ALT
compilation in Angular context.
In that it saves the long-term cost of
actually doing the compilation on the fly.
And also, we can shift
the runtime without the compiler.
So in view, we have two builds,
we have a full build,
which includes a compiler,
which is close to 30 KBG zipped.
But if you throw away the compiler
the runtime-only build is 20 KB.
So that's like a third
size saving which is
pretty good if you were using
ahead-of-time compilation, okay?
So after compiled into Render Functions,
and what Render Functions
are are essentially functions that
return virtual DOM, all right?
And then view generates the actual
DOM based on the virtual DOM.
And then we're gonna talk a bit
about what virtual DOM is.
But before we do that, so
on subsequent updates, so
notice that initial render is what
happens if you're going back to the auto
run function that we implemented earlier.
This is what happens inside
the auto run function, okay.
And after this process,
during the process that we're generating
the Virtual Dom essentially
calling the render function.
Because the render function depends on
all these data properties on your view
instances.
And these data properties are reactive,
all these data properties
are collected as dependencies of
this components render function.
And now if any of those
dependencies change,
what happens is the render
function will be called again.
All right, and on subsequent updates,
the render function gets called again and
it'll return a new virtual DOM.
And the old virtual DOM and the new
virtual DOM will be compared and diffed.
And eventually we apply the minimal
amount of changes to the actual DOM.